Jon BIOG

Jonathan Walton (aka Lemez Lovas) is a composer, performer, researcher and writer, who has worked extensively on the stage, in the studio and in print. His research interests include critical technology, folklore and ritual culture, radical education, language acquisition, singing and vocal techniques, acoustics and sound, absurdist literature, computational linguistics, storytelling and children's culture, censorship, Russia and the former Soviet Union, Indian, Roma and Jewish culture, sacred music and art as activism.

He has a BA/MA from Oxford University in Russian and French, where his thesis on Daniil Kharms and the children's literature in the USSR sparked a lifelong love of nonsense and art for children. He was about to complete an MMus in Ethnomusicology with Hungarian at London's School of Oriental and African Studies(SOAS) when he was forced to choose between final exams and taking the band he'd founded on their first European tour. As a musician and producer, working with artists like KT Tunstall, Mike Spencer, Paul Epworth and Maurice el Medioni, he went on to lead the band Oi Va Voi (Outcaste/EMI/V2) for almost a decade, playing internationally to audiences of up to 20,000 at festivals like Lowlands, Glastonbury and at the Skirball, Los Angeles. His original songs and arrangements helped the band to a Dutch Edison Award for International Album of the Year, two BBC World Music Awards nominations and a place in the New York Times Critics' Top Ten Albums of the Year in 2003.

“One of the most exciting bands in Britain today” (Telegraph)
"A wild, enthralling mix... their deluge of ideas leaves you breathless with wonder" (Independent)

Alongside songs, his writing work includes a children's novel, poetry, a major report for Freemuse/UNESCO on music censorship in Belarus, and many articles on music and arts for Songlines, fRoots and the Jewish Chronicle as acting Arts Editor. 

From his student days as Head of International News and Late Night Music at Oxygen 107.9FM, Oxford, he has gone on to produce and present for BBC World Service, BBC Russian Service, BBC Radio 2, BBC Radio 3, CBC Canada, Resonance FM, STV and helped to set up OpenAir Radio at SOAS, University of London, as well as a stint as conference coordinator and essayist for WOMEX, the annual World Music Industry Expo.

A keen linguist, he moved to Jerusalem for two years in 2005 to study Hebrew and Arabic, and co-founded independent TV production company Digress Media, winning the Audience Prize at the Nyon Archeological Film Festival for "In the Shadow of King David". Back in London, he co-founded Lemez & Fridel, a central London recording and production studio, writing original music and lyrics for everything from big game developers like Smule and Ubisoft to children's theatre companies Tall Stories and Peut-Etre and starting the bands Shtetl Superstars and Yiddish Twist Orchestra.
 
His fifteen plus years of collaboration with Josephine Burton (Yad Arts, Dash Arts) has seen them running long-standing club nights at the ICA and Notting Hill Arts Club, programming major festivals at the Barbican and South Bank Centre, curating Arab hip-hop at the Roundhouse and performing his original score for the Molly Picon silent film "East and West" in London, Paris and Jerusalem.

Most recently, he set up and ran Tonguesten, an education technology startup turning music videos into games for literacy and language learning, and taught himself programming. It was Steve Jobs who said that "everyone should learn how to programme a computer, because computers teach you how to think," but he forgot to mention that if you stop there, boy have you've got problems.

He divides his time between London and Pondicherry, India.






















Performer and composer, OVV, Shtetl Superstars, YTO.
Lemez and Fridel, Tall Stories, Peut Etre

Founder of Yad Arts, cultural programming


MAX REINHARDT 

Max is a mixed bag but all his contents revolve around music.

He's been one of the presenters of that voyage into uncharted waters, ancient and future,  that is Radio 3's Late Junction for the best part of a decade. But he’s also a regular host of Global Beats on BBC World Service and sometimes drops into World on 3. He’s surfaced as music consultant/co-scriptwriter on Radio 2's South African music series Freedom Sounds, presented a Radio 4 documentary on his  own music theatre piece 'Ketubah' and other Radio 3 specials like the Sunday Feature on Fela Kuti (with Rita Ray) and the recent La Monte Young All Nighter.

He’s written features and been a columnist and reviewer for UK music magazines Straight No Chaser, Songlines and fRoots, edited and compiled Celebrating Sanctuary: Conversations with Refugee Artists  (pub. London Arts), is close to completing Talkin’ 'bout Fela with Rita Ray and even written for the Jewish Chronicle.

Max is a founder member and musical director/composer of 'Oily Cart' < http://www.oilycart.org.uk/> Established in 1981, Oily Cart works entirely with young audiences, many with complex disabilities and often in special schools. His musical collaborators have included Finn Peters, Ernst Reijseger, Maya Youssef and Sheema Mukherjee.

"Where Oily Cart has gone before, mainstream theatre for adults often follows a couple of years later." (Lyn Gardner, in The Guardian.)

He’s currently an Associate Artist with Oxford Contemporary Music working with them in particular on his Instant Orchestra projects ( Instant Messiah at the Bodleian Library https://vimeo.com/153756059 and Instant Scorechestra at the Latitude Festival) and  developing Playing the Curriculum, a music initiative for schools

He’s composed work for Spitalfields festival, for the Suitcase 1938 production about the Kindertransport which toured the railway stations of the UK and teaches an annual New Approaches to Musical Theatre module on the Actor Musicians course at Rose Bruford College of Theatre and Performance.

His back catalogue includes  Club Djing, event curation, live performance, compilation CD’s, music for BBC Children’s TV. With Rita Ray, he's produced a host of innovative club nights in the UK and internationally like The Shrine and before that The Mambo Inn; they've curated a wide variety of events notably at the V and A, the Barbican  and for Celebrating Sanctuary, the annual festival of the work of UK based refugee artists . Their creative partnership extends to live soundtracks and  touring internationally as the 'Shrine Synchro System' whose guests have included Tony Allen, Shingai Shoniwah and Andy Sheppard.